## Abstract
From 1985-2019,  teams in the regular season  of NCAA Division 1 Men's  basketball games won 92,732 of their home games but only won  47,547 of their away games, and 15,805 of matches played in neutral locations.  This home court advantage is further confirmed with a Tukey HSD test, where the statistically significant difference between the pairs home and away games, the pairs home and neutral games, versus the pair away and neutral games was calculated.
Many articles have explained that the reason for a team’s home-court success is the presence of fans and the arena, as opposed to the fact that they are simply the better team in a particular matchup. Assuming fans are the reasons for this home court advantage, the odds are already stacked against a visiting team, when playing these basketball matches. This report tries to analyse  some of the differences between playing on the road and playing at home and sees how to optimize the in game statistics for the visiting team.
In this report, evaluation of the in game statistics was done from matches played during the year 2005-2019. The in-game statistics showed that the average points posted for the winning team when playing at home was about three points higher than when playing away or at a neutral location; the average three-pointers scored by the winning team was  similar when playing at home versus when playing away even though there was a general trend in increasing three-pointers scored from season season to season, and the turnover conceded by the winning team was 0.5 points higher when playing at away matches than when playing at home or at a neutral location.
In game analysis of the data also showed strong positive correlations between the field goals made and assists for the winning teams,  while there were weak correlations between turnovers conceded to the winning team to the score made by the winning team.
A comparison of the teams with the highest winning percentages in the seasons 1985 -2019 and from  2003 -2019 were made. The reason for this is that the in game statistics was only available for seasons 2003 -2019. In these comparisons, Kansas and Duke had the highest winning percentages for the seasons 1985- 2019, while Gonzaga and Kansas had the highest winning percentages for the years 2003-2019. 
These results showed that Gonzaga must have improved a lot from the year 2003-2019, Duke might have dropped in form during this period, while Kansas maintained their consistency during both time periods of comparison.
Based on this information a comparison was made between the average winning scores in matches for Kansas and Gonzaga. The results showed that the average winning scores when these teams play their opponents was not statistically significant. The average winning score is 75 points in matches won by both teams.
 

